What ‘quality’ actually means will depend on the outputs the project is creating, but is generally related to:
Fitness for purpose
Adherence to relevant standards and specifications
Use of best practice methods and techniques for development
‘Fitness for purpose’ will vary with the project output. For example, if you are developing software to enable users to 
perform a task, the software should enable them to perform it. However, it can also relate to how well it allows them to 
perform a task and factors like usability. If you’re developing a pilot to demonstrate feasibility, it should obviously 
demonstrate feasibility, but scalability and reliability might be other factors to consider in fitness for purpose.

Quality planning
1) Quality expectations  The programme defines the standards and level of quality expected from the project in the 
funding call
2) Acceptance criteria  The programme defines acceptance criteria for major project outputs based upon the quality 
expectations set in the funding call
3) Quality plan  The project develops a quality assurance plan showing how it will achieve the quality expected and the 
quality assurance processes it will put in place.
4) Implementation  During the project, the outputs are developed in line with the quality plan.
5) Acceptance of outputs  The project submits its outputs, supported by evidence that they meet the quality expectations
. Outputs are assessed against the acceptance criteria and accepted (or rejected) by the programme.

Acceptance criteria will relate to what you must do to demonstrate that the expected quality has been achieved. For 
example, the programme manager might ask for a set of interoperability test results to demonstrate that interoperability standards have been adhered to, or they might ask for a report from an external evaluator that assesses fitness for 
purpose.

Project QA plan
The project plan template includes a table in section 3.2 to develop the quality assurance plan. As Jisc innovation 
programmes result in a wide range of outputs, the programme manager may adapt the template to suit the type of outputs 
being developed.

Whatever the outputs, the idea is to think through how you will achieve the quality envisaged. This will involve:

quality assurance – putting in place the policies, practices, and procedures for achieving best practice and complying 
with standards 
quality control - checking that you’ve done what you expected to do (e.g. by testing). 
Think through the methods you need to put in place, the testing you must do, and the evidence that will demonstrate 
you’ve achieved the quality envisaged.  

QA methods
Define the quality assurance methods/techniques that will be used or reference established ones. For example, what 
processes will you put in place to ensure that software complies with Jisc’s open source policy, the best practice 
outlined in Section X, and relevant standards.

Evidence of compliance
Indicate the evidence that will demonstrate that you have achieved the quality envisaged. For example, this may involve 
test results, benchmarking, or successful completion of external peer review.

Quality responsibilities
quality responsibilities might be:
Project Manager  Change control, quality of project documentation
Lead programmer  System testing quality, configuration management
Programmer  Unit testing quality
Academic advisor  Usability quality.

